---
title: Awakening the energetic body
---

I write these words in search of guidance, from those who have walked this path before.

I will start by describing the sensations that I am currently experiencing, then detail the path that has lead me to this point.

I awake in the morning, and remain in bed for a while.  I can hear a faint ringing in my ears, it is always there.  If I pay attention I notice different frequencies of sound, as if listening to a chorus of crickets and other insects strumming in the evening.  I feel something moving inside my head.  This is a tactile sensation.  I understand this to be my third eye chakra.  It twists and turns, pulsates, sucks, pushes and pulls at the same time.  The sensation is difficult to describe accurately.  The sensation is somewhat uncomfortable.  I feel that I can dive into it, lean into it, become one with it.  As I focus and relax, it begins to expand.  The form changes, then changes again.  Somehow it feels like the inside of a female reproductive organ.  Some say that the process feels like both being born and giving birth at the same time.  Am I entering a birth canal?  I inhale slowly and compress my exhale into a hum to aide in relaxation.  

I notice that I can direct the energy downwards.  I can feel a swelling at the base of my spine.  My legs begin to feel liquid and floaty.  Around my hips I feel a hem of pins that turns and bends.  I can feel the energy in my belly, it feels like a horizontal line two inches wide, below the line exists a black maw, an abyss.  This same horizontal line I can feel sometimes on the bridge of my nose.  I can feel the energy in my solar plexus, like an aching spot.  I can feel the energy in my chest, sometimes I can feel my heart beating, sometimes I can feel my nipples become ticklish, sometimes it feels like flames fanning out from my heart.  Sometimes I feel the energy in my throat, like a spider sitting on my adam's apple with long legs wrapped around my neck.  Sometimes I feel the energy centers pulsating in my hands and feet.  Sometimes I feel aching sensations rising up my upper arms to my shoulders.
I meditate lying flat on my back, without a pillow, my legs slightly apart, my hands at my sides, wearing a sleeping mask to keep my eyes closed.  I notice my left eye will occasionally flutter open slightly when I forget to wear the mask.  I notice that when meditating lying down, sometimes I feel as though I am standing in tadasana pose, as if the Earth were beneath my feet.  There was a fleeting moment a few days ago, when I felt my chakras align, they glowed with the colours of the rainbow, I felt my energetic body floating upwards, from the hips, a divine sensation.

I meditate standing, in tadasana pose.  All those years of yoga practice, which I thought was simply exercise, now I realize has prepared me for this.  After ten minutes or so my legs begin to tremble.  I notice that my calf and thigh muscles are very tense.  Sometimes I feel my heels begin to slip outwards, although when I look down I see my feet have not moved.  Sometimes I feel the ground rock and roll, exactly like the sensation of land sickness after having spent a few days at sea.  When standing, I can feel more acutely the energy rushing up and down my spine.  Sometimes as I relax more completely, I can feel my head roll backwards slowly, until right back with my forehead facing the heavens.  The energy feels like great bubbles behind my forehead.  I understand that at this point a bolt of energy is supposed to suddenly rise up from the base of my spine and pierce my forehead.  At least, I have experienced this once before.

I meditate sitting, on a chair, with my back straight and my palms flat on my knees.  Sometimes I feel like I am becoming heavier, as if my weight would break the chair.  Sometimes I feel my spine compress, as if the gravitational field of the Earth had been multiplied.  Sometimes I feel my feet float free from the floor.  Sometimes I feel as though I am on an amusement park ride, one that spins and generates a centrifugal force.

Sometimes I'll meditate with my eyes open.  I found that standing my the banks of the canal and looking at the reflection of the trees and the clouds in the still water to be very soothing.  If I relax enough, at some point my vision starts to assume a psychedelic nature, mild distortion around the edges of my visual field.

Focus is always challenging.  I am forever carried away by intrusive thoughts.  Worries and concerns, idle role-play, remembering and reliving memories in an alternative manner.  Sometimes I become aware of the bubbles rising from my subconscious, each one a thought ready to grasp my attention, and I am able to dispel them, at least for a while.  Ah, but once again I am back on the train of thought, don't know how I got here, or how long I have been thinking, but if I try to retrace my steps, it becomes hazy.  Return to the center, breathe, focus, relax.  I notice that over time some of the more painful memories have become softer, the rough edges smoothed off, I become more forgiving, both to myself and to others who have hurt me.

A few times I have been hit with revelations, feels like a thunderbolt to the head.  Suddenly revealed to me a deeper understanding of fear; how we transmit it from generation to generation without realizing, unquestioning; the aberrant nature of the shame we feel towards our bodies and our reproductive desire.  The infectious nature of fear that permeates society; how so many people have told me during my life in one form or another: "Be afraid!"; this fear that I so long to cast off.  Yet my own fear is always challenging.  The deeper I plunge inward, the more afraid I become.   Sometimes the experience can become overwhelmingly terrifying.
There was another fleeting moment a few weeks ago, when I walked outside the house and stood on the front deck, and I was taken by a feeling of complete serenity.  Everything clicked into place, the world seemed so perfectly understandable.  For a moment, I was beyond fear, filled with total love and compassion.

All I seem to want to do is meditate.  I am drawn to meditation like a moth to a flame.  I would be happy to sleep, eat, meditate, and nothing else, for as long as it takes to realize the complete awakening.  There is a certain mirage-like quality to the experience, as if I am always on the cusp of an awakening, which tantalizingly remains just out of reach.  Yet I always feel that I am consistently slipping ever deeper into the state with each meditation session.  The experience is also very profound, steeped with great importance, indeed as if this were the most important thing in my life.

I've compared the process to speleology, as if my mind were a cave, with many caverns and narrow passages, all leading downwards.  When I enter I speedily whizz through the first sections, having passed through here many times already, remembering how challenging they were months ago, before entering the lower, darker, and tighter sections where I begin to slow down.  At some point on the journey I will ask myself, "Have I been here already?" to which I reply "No, this is the deepest yet."  And then the next question naturally arises "How much further?" to which I have I have no reply.

I've mostly ceased eating meat, I've mostly ceased consuming alcohol.  This wasn't a firm decision, it simply occurred naturally.  I could go dance in a nightclub, but recently I am turned off by the profane, instead I find myself turning towards the sacred, in whatever form it manifests.  I would rather be in a zen garden or inside a temple or shrine.  As an adult I've never been one for church, but while staying recently in an Irish village I found myself drawn to the old stone church, where I would sit quietly for hours.  Before that I spent several months camping by a wild hot spring in the mountains.
I had meditated in a haphazard manner on and off for at least ten years before all this started.  But about a year ago I was suddenly seized by the urgent need to meditate, almost as if my life depended upon it.  Since then I've been meditating at least 4-6 hours a day.  I'd like to take a break from meditation, but I can't.  I am finding it quite challenging to write these words, as I can feel the pulsating throbbing in my head, all I want to do is surrender, abandon myself, give in and rise up.  Oh, how I wish I could snap my fingers and turn it off!  

A few months ago I discovered that I exhibit aphantasia.  I am neurodivergent, without having a definitive diagnosis, some version of ADHD.  I am forgetful, easily distracted.  Also PTSD, depression, anxiety, which have improved through somatic therapy, but are still present.  I have moderate difficulty establishing and maintaining relationships.  I also exhibit heightened sensitivity to certain textures or materials, temperature change, loud noises, etc. where others seem unbothered.  I am generally unable to fall asleep on my back.  I have an abnormally high IQ.  On three occasions in my life I have abandoned all my worldly possessions, keeping nothing more than a suitcase of clothes, first in my early 20's, second in my early 30's, and then a third time in my late 30's; for the last several years I have lived as a digital nomad.

About two years ago I had an out-of-body experience.  This was a spontaneous, uncontrolled experience, not one that I was searching for.  This was not a near-death experience, nor was I in any danger at all.  I had been experiencing months of growing frustration in my professional and domestic life, and been thoroughly disgusted by systematic war crimes being committed in Ukraine.  I happened to smoke a joint where I used cannabis that was new to me and of far higher potency that I expected, as a result I overdosed, and only realized this when I tried to stand up and move indoors.  I staggered inside, heading for the bed, realized that I wasn't going to make it, and crumpled on the floor, on my knees.  This is when I felt my energetic body start to rise, in a "holy shit, it's coming!" kind of realization, almost like suddenly needing to vomit.  Instinctively I knew what was happening, I knew to breathe in deep, align my spine, and look up.  In an instant I was out, tearing free from my material body, a most unpleasant feeling.  As I flew high above the city, I noticed orbs of light floating in the sky, I moved closer to one and realized it was a person, peacefully asleep, rising upwards.  I assumed this was someone who had recently died.  I traveled to Ukraine, hovering over the front lines, and saw the staggering multitude of orbs floating upwards.  So annoyed by this sight, I decided to seek out Putin in person, who I found, seated behind his desk, and I reflected upon his emotional state, noting his extreme paranoia.  At this point I instinctively flew upwards, beyond the Earth and the stars, to a place before time.  In this nothing-space I felt myself to be in the presence of the Creator, we can say God.  Here I was presented with a blueprint for a system, intricate, incredibly detailed, complete and perfect, with the instruction to implement it.  I found myself hovering over Ukraine again, where I was greeted with the vision of every soldier simply saying "No".  The disobedience flew up the ranks, swiftly reaching the top.  As I floated back to my body I was left with the sensation of what the world would be like if every person had the courage to say "No".

This was my second OBE.  My first experience occurred ten years ago when I smoked DMT, for the first and only time.  I was sitting on a couch, and almost immediately my legs began to tremble uncontrollably.  This trembling rose through my body which started to shudder and convulse.  I was terrified.  The man who had administered the substance told me "Don't fight it, go with it."  I breathed out and I felt my head ripping free of my skull, and within an instant I was out and away.  I struggle to describe what happened next, the best that I can say was I felt cosmic unity and universal understanding.  There is a scene from the animated TV show Avatar, where the main character Aang works through unlocking his chakras and then enters a cosmic state, seeing this scene reminded me of what I experienced.  I returned to my body and gazed at the wild psychedelic imagery around me which slowly settled to normality in the space of minutes.  At the time I didn't realize that I had had an OBE, it was only after my second experience that I realized I had lived this once before.  I mistakenly assumed that all people who consume DMT have this experience, only later did I learn that what happened to me was quite unusual.

Forgive my sarcasm, but I really would have preferred to do this whole spiritual awakening in a more casual manner, on a more part-time basis, without rocking my life so much.  I'm unemployed, broke, surviving on hand-outs, which is a source of worry.  Can I really return to software development in my current condition?  It's hard enough to find enlightenment without the additional pressure of having to find a job.  Nothing about this was planned, I didn't decide that this was something I wanted, rather I feel as if it has been thrust upon me.  The sensations are powerful and unrelenting.  I wish I was in a safe space surrounded by wise and supportive people.  More than anything, I could do with a guide.  I'm very open to all suggestions and advice.