---
title: Patrick Collins - A more honest CV
date: 2022-11-12
---

A CV tends to be a best-foot-forward highly-censored version of a story.  I'd like to rewrite this story in prose form, and put in all the dirty details.  I call this a more honest CV.

I was hired out of high school by Smarttrack Systems in Johannesburg, South Africa.  I was just shy of my 18th birthday.  In the 20 years of software development experience since then, I have yet to meet another developer who started their career so young.  Indeed, most study for 3-5 years after high school.  This begs the question: What are they all learning in engineering school?  As it happened, I learnt computer programming in the last three years of high school, we learnt to code in Pascal, which probably wasn't the most useful language, but also not the worst.  Procedural programming, no object-orientation, but structured, good names for variables and methods, and we got good marks for leaving comments.  I had also learnt to program in C/C++ a bit on the side.  At Smarttrack I was given an intial project to develop a visual installer for an anti-virus suite, gather some config settings from the user and then run another program, simple enough.  Then I got shipped off to Medscheme.

At the time, Medscheme was the largest health insurance brokerage in South Africa, there must have been several hundred people working there.  I was still employed by Smarttrack, although I hardly saw those people, I was working full-time on-site.  A few months went by before I saw how much my employer was charging the client for my time.  I can't remember the amount, but it was several times my salary.  This was, and remains to this day, a racket, one which I see over and over again: Companies pay far more than they should for software developers, and middlemen take huge cuts while adding little to no value.  That said, Medscheme was quite a racket, picking up huge commissions on each policy signed, while also adding fairly little value themselves.  I understood that the higer-ups spent most of their time on the golf course with the directors of other companies, to ensure that Medscheme always remained in the loop.  Meanwhile, I was wrestling with the broker commission system.  Not only did Medscheme not underwrite the health insurance policies, they also did not sell the policies either, for they had a network of sole-traders and small companies who took care of that for them, and who also handled the settling of claims for their clients.  These agents got paid on commission, and I got to maintain the system that calculated those commissions.  I lasted a year.  Most of my time during that year was spent dealing with fraud and Y2K compliance.  The fraud really shocked me, agents and staff would collude to shift the commissions for new policies, once the money had been paid they would then dissapear.  Subsequently, I was confronted by angry agents who felt (quite rightly) that they had been underpaid.  Management would intervene, we would have to correct the records, then roll the system back in time and run it forwards again.  The system was slow, a buggy maze, it would regularly crash under its own weight.  I was called on, time and again, to rollback and rerun.  I had to introduce optimizations, batching queries, eliminating useless calls, fixing bugs.  It was painful work.  The Y2K compliance was even worse, hunting through the code looking for places where a date was read or written without the full 4-digit year.  I met a chap who was going around drawing up a massive map of all the interconnected information systems throughout the brokerage, he found that my system depended on at least five other systems, and indeed there were several systems which consumed data from the broker commission system that I was maintaining.  I had been working on the system for months, and I didn't even know that these other systems existed.  Final little anecdote from Mescheme: a group of well-dressed gentlemen entered the building pushing a cart, saying they were Y2K compliance consultants, they calmly looped around the office taking each person's laptop computer,pushed the trolly out the front door and into a waiting truck, then drove off and never returned.  Talk about a lack of information security!  Honestly, I could have stayed, I might still be there today.