---
title: This is how you lose her
date: 2018-09-30
---

We're lying on the grass, smoking joints, down below there are crowds, stages, bands, lights, the whole merry-go-round.  Suddenly she pounces on me, sits astride my hips, pins me down and looks at me with wildly dilated pupils.  She asks me if I could just finger her a little.  We're crossing a line here of course, but the drugs do that to you: the barriers we so carefully erect come tumbling down.  I should say no, let's keep that door shut, but of course I don't.  There's a quiet spot, I ask her to sit between my legs, she wants to face me.  Her shorts are so tight I can barely get my hand in, the angle is wrong, she says it's fine, doesn't matter, it's not going to be weird right?

She's joyous, bouncing around, emotional, we dance.  Pulsating waves of pleasure are flowing up and down my body, I'm trembling, my heart is pounding, my jaw is grinding uncontrollably, throbbing electronic beats vibrate through me, my feet no longer touch the ground.

The concerts are ending, she's lost her phone, it's a tragedy, she's sobbing, an anxious moment.  She's angry now, she wants to blame someone, anyone, this is all so unfair.  She pulls herself together and announces that she wants to go home and take more drugs.  A reasonable choice given the circumstances.  We lose the others and catch a taxi.  The short summer night is ending, the sun is rising over the sea.

Back in her room we dip the wet tips of our fingers into the fine white powder scattered over a plate.  We're sitting on the balcony, smoking, she's telling me the finer details of her sexual fantasies.  She wants to be dominated by a strong man who'll choke her tightly by the neck with one hand while jerking her off with the other.  A man who can overpower her and hold her down and fuck her hard.

She's so horny she's turning inside out.  We're lying on the bed, I run my hand down her leg and up under her skirt.  She'd rather I didn't, but she'd rather I did.  Her panties are wet, my fingers slip inwards, searching at length for the entrance, inside now, exploring her inner world.  Every women is different, she's incredibly tight.

She tells me she likes to be spanked, well fancy that, I like spanking, so I spank her, softly at first then with force.  She doesn't squeak.  I'm striking so hard I'll wake the house-mates.  There's a welt on her dark skin, she must have very high pain tolerance.  She sits on me again, this time facing away and begins twerking her butt on my crotch.  She's smiling at me over her shoulder, you like that?  Of course I do, my dick is rock hard.  I tend to go for women who read books, the literate-nerdy types, a little shy, like me.  She's the opposite of shy, almost intimidating in her confidence.  

I want to go down on her, if I lick her she's sure to come, and probably more than once, but she doesn't let me, too far over the line I suppose, although at the point we're at I'm not sure if I can even see the line any more.  I think I pass out briefly.   When I come to she's crawling up between my thighs, her eyes are hungry, her skirt has gone, her lace panties are against my boxers, I'm rock hard again, my dick has escaped, I'm pulling her panties aside, is this about to happen?  She rolls off with a laugh, narrow escape.  She wants to have sex, and I'm there, but she'd rather someone else.  Two big black men with huge cocks, she could fuck one while the other waits.

Time passes, as it does when you're high, the outside world collapses to the four walls of a single room.  It's a pretty room, pressed ceilings and geometric tiles, she has aesthetic taste.  She's getting freshened up, applying makeup, selecting an outfit.  I realize that she's invited a lover over.  Not that I mind, she's a free woman after all, let her do what she wants.  I decide to make myself scarce, not entirely keen to meet the man who'll soon fuck her, wondering what he has that I don't, bigger arms, straighter teeth, a sharper sense of humour, more confidence, probably all of the above, toxic thoughts those, whatever, let it go.

She's just a friend anyway.  I've always preferred the company of women, the gentler sex, I'm a gentle man, although not always a gentleman.  You'll find out why later.

We'd first met some months prior at a house party, I was rolling, as usual, she spoke to me intensely about film-making while my lovers caressed my body.  She started to come round often to mine and we'd get drunk and high on the terrace while the sun went down.  Wine and pot are a happy couple.  She's an optimist, celebratory, pragmatic, organized, streetwise, headstrong, a natural storyteller.  She told me about her travels, walking through the favelas of Rio, seeing the poverty and wondering whether her frustration at not making producer was entirely justified.  People are suffering and she's tying herself in knots over career advancement.  Why not ditch it all and fly to Barcelona?  A new life awaits.  Let's have another glass, cheers!

As we grew closer she let slip ever more intimate details.  She'd often complain of sexual frustration, quite puzzling for me as she's very attractive and men are continually making advances, seems that she's excessively selective.  Also, she's from New York and doesn't get the scene here in Barcelona.  I don't know what the scene is like in New York, but here I've had more sex than ever before in my life.  There's a continuous stream of artistic types flowing through my apartment, endless parties, a lot of drugs, orgies, you name it.  Health comes second place, a short ride to an early grave, not exactly they way I want to lead my life, but for a season it's fun.

I fly to Dublin to visit family and friends.  I'd never sexualized her before, she's just a person, a woman, a friend.  But now I was troubled by torrid dreams, spanking, choking, holding her down, her hands behind her back, thrust my dick deep into her throat, throw her around, maybe even tie her up and pound her ass.  This is exactly what I didn't want to happen.  She's a catch, clearly, not just as a lover but as a partner, someone to share a life with, travel the world, have a family, live the experience to the full.  My wires are definitely getting crossed.  She'd given me a book to read, the title was "This is how you lose her", stories of guys repeatedly screwing up with girls, veined with nostalgia for Puerto Rico.  A premonition?

Back in town, we went out dancing, I was rolling again, she wasn't.  Afterwards we head back to her place, smoking joints once again on the balcony.  She wants to go to the beach, so we do.  She's wearing a stunning one-piece, high sides making her graceful legs look even longer.  I swim and we relax.  I gaze at her lounging figure and I'm overcome with desire.  I want to leave.  I ask if we can go, but she wants to stay a while.  I can't leave her here, there's no one around, she might fall asleep, someone might rob her, it's still early, there's really no one around, I want to leave but I can't.  I caress her face, gently, her neck, her chest, her hips, her thighs.  I shouldn't slip my hand inside her swimsuit, but I do, reach down towards her crotch, she opens her legs slightly, then wider, as I begin to stimulate her clitoris she starts to roll her hips, her head falls back, she sighs, I continue to rub and her legs fall ever open, her hips roll more, she will surely climax.  As the sun rises a surging crowd descend upon the sand.  Too many people now, I must stop.  It's starting to get hot, I can already feel my skin starting to burn.  She has natural protection, what luck.  I hold out as long as I can and then I drag her up and home.  We walk, we talk, we say goodbye.

I shouldn't have touched her without her consent.  This time I've definitely stepped too far over the line.  To say she's upset would be an understatement.  She tells me I'm vile, she'd rather never see me again.  Trust, hard won, easily squandered.  A moment of impropriety erases all.  I've lost a friend, again.  It doesn't help to wish things had gone differently, because it's too late now.

I have a day to myself, no obligations, the weather is nice.  I'm feeling a bit suicidal, happens, sometimes erasing myself from the equation seems like a sensible enough move, life will continue regardless, the species is in no danger.  There's tidying up to do, emptying out my apartment and returning the keys, emptying out my bank account and finding a worthwhile charity, make it look like an accident so folks can sleep better, it's actually quite a lot of work when you start to think about it.  Instead I drop a tab of LSD and go off to the spirit realm in search of answers.  For the next eight hours the drug batters me with memories deeply buried and long forgotten of all the women who I have loved and lost.  It's a rough ride.  I remember a young woman who I loved once, it's been 15 years since she died in that accident, I cry, I'm surprised that it still hurts after all this time.  I think of all the women who I have hurt.  Goaded by a reproductive instinct, hamstrung by an empathetic impediment, my intentions are always good, but sometimes my actions hurt others.  There's a fatherly tone to the drug's voice, both reprimanding and forgiving.  "Look at what you have done!" it bellows, "Now accept!"  I think of her, of what we shared, of what I'd done, and I accept.