Title: In the maze

I'd been following her for a while down these corridors, through innumerable left and right turns, listening to her talk occassionaly, as much to me as to herself.  I thought she looked quite fine in her high black boots and white leather jumpsuit with the thick zipper up the front.  The outfit was skin-tight and hugged her cheeks.  I'd been flirting with her, and though she did not rebuff me, my remarks did not seem to incite her in any way either.

I looked on as she crouched down yet again, concentrated fixatedly, scribbling away furiously on her pad, drawing lines and joining dots and jotting notes in the margins.  She mentioned in passing that the maze might have an abnormal topology: beyond there being no edges, the space might in fact wrap around on itself in a manner impossible in standard Euclidean geometry.

I took off for a while to commune with the higher dimensional beings orbiting various black holes.  I told them about the girl and they nodded sagely.  They explained to me how the universe is in fact nothing more than a procedural generation function, and though we may search for the seed to the function on the outside, in truth we all carry it within us.

I sat crossed-legged for a time and hummed the Om.  A plump caterpillar crawled across a leaf and chewed upon the cellulose.  I asked him how the vegetation was and he replied that it was quite tasty.  I was curious, but alas I lacked the digestive capacity to break the matter down directly, therefore I asked the caterpiller if he would mind if I ate him instead, a proposition he most graciously accepted.  I picked him up and dropped into my mouth, bit upon his body and felt his juices ooze across my tongue.  I perceived his insides, and though them the leaf, and through them the carbon dioxide of this peculiar moon, joined by photosynthensis with the sunlight of the nearby star, in turn liberated in waves of stellar nucleosynthesis, hydrogen atoms fusing continuosly, themselves liberated in the first instant of our universe.  Quite tasty indeed.

I found her again, slumped against a wall, she'd put aside the maze for a while to focus instead upon her notes, which had become quite a maze in themselves.  She knew where she was going but was quite hopelessly lost.  Evidently she was feeling overwhelmed, so I sat down next to her and took her in my arms.  She turned her head into my shoulder and broke down into sobs.  I told her that is was alright to cry, holding her as tightly as I could, then I kissed her head and stroked her back.  She wailed, forlourn, and I encouraged her, whispering, stroking, kissing, giving her all the love she so clearly needed and was too proud to take.

I told her about the higher dimensional beings and the leaf and the caterpillar, and I stroked her and kissed her while she wept woefully, and I slowly pulled down the thick zipper of her jumpsuit.  She did not resist as I exposed her shoulders, massaging them, then pulling down the sleeves and releaving her back.  I loosened the sash of my kimono, bared my chest and pulled her close to me, feeling the skin of our torsos touch.  She cried still, hyperventilated jarringly, the frustration pouring out, and I sought to breathe slowly and deeply to calm her.


