---
title: In Brazil
date: 2021-05-18
---

I was wandering around the favela with Nathalia trying to find weed.  This was Santa Marta, relatively safe as favelas go in Rio de Janeiro.  The locals had scoffed at me "Santa Marta is for tourists, just like Vidigal".  I would like to point out that I lived just down the hill and had been woken up more than once by gunfire in the very early morning, and not just a few shots, but maybe 50 or more, most likely automatic weapons.  I think "safe" is a very relative concept in Brazil.  Across the country, some 60,000 people were murdered last year.  The military police in Rio murder about 1,000 people per year, and the number continues to grow.  This is a violent place, about as violent as it gets.  Gazing at a list of the worlds most violent cities, only Mexico can compare.
We're walking up through a maze of staircases and narrow streets.  The favelas has cement on the ground, plumbing, cables, the houses are build from bricks and mortar.  This may be an informal settlement, but they're looking pretty settled-in myself.  I couldn't figure out if the residents had papers for their properties, as no official permission had been granted to begin construction in the first place.  People just starting building up the hillsides, and every now and then the whole lot comes sliding down and a lot of people die.
Lot of contrasts in Rio.  The country club has a membership fee of $1 million per annum, that's US dollars, and there is a waiting list to get in.  All along the south shore great glass towers reflect the morning rays, homes to the wealthy, so many millionaires.  On many a street corner the homeless sleep in the open air upon nothing but a piece of cardboard.
Nathalia is starting to ask people where to buy maconha, a kid tells us to head up a staircase over there.  I see a teenager standing nonchalantly, wearing a surf short, a t-shirt, pair of flip-flops, and a cap.  He looks life a surfer, except he is holding a kalashnikov that is almost as big as he is.  I pull Nathalia over and ask her what the story is.  She looks at me like I'm an idiot.  She tells me that the lad is a soldier.  A soldier?  Yes, for the faction.  I was surprised they use the word "soldier", I wonder if they have ranks too.
There are three primary factions in Rio, otherwise known as criminal organizations.  I understand that they are Commando Vermelho (Red Command), Tercero Commando (Third Command), and Amigos de Amigos (Friends of Friends).  These three organizations were all born in the prisons of Rio in the 70s and 80s.  The favelas of Rio are controlled by one of these three, except those that are controlled by the malicia, a para-military organization that operates completely outside of the law.
Down below, in the "asphalt", as they refer to the rest of the city that is not a favela, the police hold sway, and my, there are a lot of police.  There is a whole heirarchy of security, so many people employed to protect the wealthy of those who have from those who have not.  You've got the security guards in the entrance to every single building, the local police, the municipal police, the state police, the military police, and the higher up you go in the heirarchy, the bigger the guns get.  I was a bit confused by the military police, I thought they normally handled internal affaires inside the military, but here they were out on the street in armoured cars and very heavy caliber weapons indeed.  I was also surprised to see women in the military police, they were fit, I'm not going to lie, tall Brazilian woman with big breasts in a tight uniform and armed to the teeth.  I decided not to stare.  It's generally considered rude to stare, and also not a good idea when you're staring at a police officer, especially when you're carrying weed which is actually very illegal these, but man, holy smokes, hot!
We finally found our way up a staircase and onto a small square where a table and chairs had been set up.  Upon the table was a huge stack of marijuana, the herbs wrapped in plastic in long strips, like long skinny sausages.  Supposedly it's easier to transport in a backpack, but I was still quite confused by their choice of packaging.  The weed was very cheap, compared to Spain, and of awful quality.  I'll take what I can get.  Nathalie ripped the end off the sausage and starting rolling.  A joint in Portuguese is "un baseado" and they say "apertar" instead of rolling they "press" a joint.  Vamos apertar un baseado, man.  They say "man-e" always sticking an -e at the end of any English word.  They called me "Patrick-e".  It's kinda of sweet.
We get good and proper baked, looking out at the city below.  Rio certainly is pretty, if you catch the city from the right angle.  Don't look too close, ok?
I had arrived in Rio with a broken toe.  I broke it the day before in Buenos Aires.  Accidents happen, alright, don't give me a hard time.  All I'll say is that it was dark, and I was high.  The chair ambushed me.  All my own fault.  I had to switch planes in Sao Paulo, I'd been limping a fair distance, and by this point it was hurting like hell.  First stop, the hospital.  They bandaged me up real good, but I couldn't walk for a week or swim for a month.  The no-swimming was the worst, it was hotter than the surface of the sun and I really wanted to get into the sea.  Temperatures peaked at 38·C, but with 90% humidity it felt like 50·C.  It became difficult to breathe outside, I would just sit indoors next to the airconditioner and wait for nightfall.
As I was somewhat of limited mobility, I decided to buy an electric scooter to zoom around.  That was a terrible idea, because the roads of Rio are very poorly paved, holes everywhere, and people drive like lunatics.  The sidewalks were in such poor repair that the road surface was actually more pasable.  Are they really so short on cash that they can't resurface the roads?  The condition was nothing short of appaling.  Do not drive an electric scooter in the rain in Rio, the holes fill with water and you can no longer see them.  Certain death will follow.
Nathalia is my portuguese teacher, although she also doubles as tour-guide and body guard.  Stick with me and I'll keep you safe, she said.  Then she got into a argument with the police and they took her away in the back of their van.  They let her out later, they were just trying to knock some respect into her.  I hate the police, I spit on them, so she went on.  I'm no friend of the police, but this was a whole different level of contempt.  No point arguing with the police, anywhere in the world, never ends well.  But she was right, and they were wrong.  Nathalia is one of those people who are right about everything.  I wish I was so sure.
Here's a little story about Nathalia.  She missed class because she was in hospital.  She was in hospital because she had been hit on the head by a bottle, and she had a mean gash across her forehead.  Quite the scar upon such a pretty face.  We need to rewind here a little.  She was at home, with her (ex?)boyfriend, and he went out to buy cigarettes and took too long coming home.  Impatient, she went out to look for him, and found three women seated on a sidewalk terrace having beers.  One of these women had previously slept with her (ex?)boyfriend, and Nathalia had found out about this.  In her crazed mind, she put two and two together and decided that this girl was surely sleeping with the guy right now, and so she walked over and hit the woman in the face.  This is when one of the other women grabbed a bottle and hit Nathalia.  At this point boyfriend arrived with a pack of recently-purchased cigarettes and finds Nathalie on pavement, bleeding profusely.
I asked Nathalia to please not hit me, not not and not ever.  She gave me a big hug and a wet kiss and laughed and said don't be ridiculous, I would never hit you.  I looked at her steady for a long time.  This is a violent country after all.  You can take a girl out of the favela, but you can't take the favela out of a girl.  She is so pretty, a face to launch ships, no joke, I'd forgive her anything.  I'm also terrified of her by this point.  
She took me to a New Years party, a complex of houses surrounding a pool and laced with such vegetation I felt like I was in the jungle, down below the great city, the lights going as far as the eye can see, even a few ships out there in the bay.  I missed the fireworks on the beach, but I had a good old time.