Title: In the desert of New Mexico
slug: in-the-desert-of-new-mexico
Date: 2017-03-16
Parent: Themepark Earth
Parent_URL: themepark-earth

[Previously.](/with-mara-in-vegas/)

I wake up, feeling momentarily disoriented, trying to remember where am I.  Morning light is streaming through a gap in the curtains.  I'm not on the jet.  A hotel room, somewhere, in Vegas, that's right, the Pink Flamingo.  There's a girl asleep in the bed next to me, her name is Mara, she's under the covers, her swimsuit is lying on the floor, I suppose she must have taken it off during the night.  I wonder if she's wearing anything now, I think about sliding my hand over to check, but decide not to.

I get out of bed, put on a bathrobe and step out onto the balcony.  Oh my, far too bright, I step back inside to slip on my shades.  It's already getting hot outside.  It would be impossible to survive in a place like this without air conditioning.  I stand at the edge looking out over the sprawl of hotels and casinos.  Who would think to build a temple complex to the gods of greed and excess in the middle of the desert?

Fake pyramids, fake Eiffel towers.  If the world is a themepark, then this place must be the epicentre.  Here the rich come to play, to gamble away their fortunes, meanwhile, on the other side of the fence, the downtrodden poor scratch out a living in the dirt.  And were I to try to tear down that fence my fellow kinsman would just as surely shoot me in the back for my efforts.  I spare a thought for the ugly, the fat, the deformed, the scarred, the amputated.  Should I feel guilty for being born healthy and good looking, on the right side of the fence, white and male in a world dominated by white males?

Here we are, seven billion and counting, on a rock floating through space.  Did I ask to be born into this world?  Did anyone?  But in the end I'm going to die anyway, just like everyone else.  Who else should I look after if not number one?  Sure, I'm taking advantage of my father, but is it so bad to take advantage of a man who spent his life amassing wealth and never sharing any of it?  I suppose the best I can do is to sprinkle a little bit of it as I go.

I'd read in a magazine article that at any moment in time there are a million people in the sky.  All those carbon emissions, the resultant global warming, melting of the glaciers, rising sea levels, flooding a hundred million Bengalis.  Me, I'm just one more in the sky, and do you think they'll all stop flying if I do?  Hell no.

The world is changing so fast.  People used to look to the future fifty years ahead, but now?  The future is arriving every day.  Cars are driving themselves.  Some private businessman is sending rockets into space.  The sum of the world's knowledge is in my pocket a few screen taps away.  Undoubtedly, the robot army will soon take over.  The time to live is right now.  Before the forests are all gone.  Before the last panda takes his last shit.

Hangovers make me pessimistic.  I go inside and order coffee and pastries from room service.  The arrival of the bellhop with his cart rouses Mara.  As he departs she arises from bed, stark naked as I'd deemed likely, quite oblivious to my regard.  She dons a robe and we sit down to breakfast.  She stifles a wide yawn as I serve coffee, scratches her sleepy eyes, her dreads are all tangled, I find the vision rather adorable.  She picks the smallest pastry, places it between her lips and takes the tiniest bite.  Her eyes close in ecstasy.  A far cry indeed from dumpster diving.

In short order the pastries dissapear and she's licking the tip of her finger to gather up every last flake.  She tells me that I'm cruel to introduce her to such opulence, she'll not be able to live this way when I leave.  I reply that I have no intention of leaving her.  She just gazes as me steadily.

She asks me if I still want to go to New Mexico.  Why ever not?  I grab the remote control, press the button, we dress and descend to reception to pay the bill.  By the time we walk outside a car is already waiting at the curb.  The airport, the jet, Santa Fe if you please.  We take off and I look out the window as the vision of Las Vegas slips away.

During the flight Mara tells me about her experiences at Burning Man, how she met this radically artistic guy who totally blew her away.  Almost intimidating in his intensity.  She'd wanted to go with him and spend some time in his artistic community, but instead she'd been carried off by a bunch of people from San Francisco, one thing led to another, she'd been busy, mixing drinks and painting walls and singing open mics, then I'd arrived on the scene.  Am I her free ride to hook up with this dude?

We land an hour and a half later, Mara directs the driver to a village out in the sticks.  The rolling landscape is vast, utterly desolate, strangely beautiful.  After a long winding drive across plains, through canyons, and down the side of a cliff, we finally arrive in the middle of nowhere.  What we see before us is not so much a village, as a single rambling house, growing out in random directions, new floors built atop old, seemingly without any master plan.  The walls are straight, of reddish-brown adobe, the corners rounded, wooden posts sticking out at regular intervals, the windows small and deeply recessed.  A world away from Vegas, to be sure.

We saunter in, unannounced and uninvited.  The interior walls are covered in images wilder than I could imagine, colours unfolding and splaying out in twisted bursts, bending and looping, mixing and weaving, is this what a trip feels like?  Here I was thinking Mara was insane, this lot must be completely nuts.

Obviously, she is delighted, wide-eyed, feasting upon the scene, we move to the next room.  I see a woman weaving baskets, she doesn't reply when I greet her, perhaps she is deaf.  Through a doorway I see a person asleep in a bed.  A pair of children skip pass, holding hands, the peals of their shrill voices reverberating down the corridor.  We climb a flight of stairs, and there encounter a woman standing in a pool of light from the window, her nude slender body covered in paint, and a man, croutching, at present decorating her leg.  The woman glances at us and then looks away.  The man is wrapped in a long blue robe, white dancing dragons contrasting with his flowing red hair.  His skin is pale and a goatee sprouts from his chin.  Mara interrupts the painting, introduces herself, ah yes the young German painter musician backpacker, a kiss on the cheek followed by a long tight embrace.  What a pleasant surprise, catching up, stories from the playa, they speak for ages, evidently I am invisible.  I look at the model, she's still standing in the same position, staring into the middle distance.  At one point he notices me, and inquires if I too am an artist.  When I reply that I am not, he shrugs, looks me up and down, and turns back to his conversation with Mara.  His name is Wind, which if you ask me is a rather silly name.

I'm feeling a bit left out, so I decide to keep exploring.  In an adjoining room there is a seated man playing an elongated stringed instrument, striking a melody of resounding reverance.  His closed eyes are surrounded by thick creases, his skin is dark, his ancestry may be aboriginal Australian, but I'm not sure.  What path has led him here to this place?  I sit down on a cushion to listen to the music.  At length he ceases playing, opens his eyes and looks at me for a while.  In a creaking voice he tells me that I am searching for something, and though I may climb to the tops of the mountains, though I may crawl to the heart of the forest, though I may walk upon the dunes of the desert, though I may plunge to the depths of the ocean, I will not find it.  For what I am searching for may not be found on the outside.  I need to look inward, inside myself, and therein I will find the answers.  With that he closes his eyes and resumes his melody.  

I raise an eyebrow.  Well ain't that some mystical shit right there?  Who is this old man spouting wise to random kids who wander in unnanounced and uninvited?  I'd like to ask, but he's lost in the music, and then I see Mara gesturing me to come hither.  She tells me that Wind has agreed to perform a special peyote ceremony for us at sundown.

What am I getting myself into?  As mental preparation, we go outside and get lost in the cactus labyrinth.  It is hotter than the surface of the sun, the long curving lines of giant cacti, I'm obidiently following Mara, my eyes fixed on her cut-off shorts, one foot in front of the other, turn left, walk, turn right, walk, I'm losing track of time, how much further?  There may be magical energy hidden in here somewhere, but I'd much rather a cool drink in the shade.  Finally we arrive at the centre and sit for a while upon a bench.  

There is a sign post marked "Way out" pointing downwards.  I scrape the dirt away with my feet, revealing a trap door.  With a firm grasp and a hard yank I manage to open it.  Steps lead downward into the darkness.  I look at Mara.  We don't have torches.  I don't fancy the idea of walking an hour back through the labyrinth in the baking heat.  The stairwell is alluring.  Obviously, this has been set up intentionally.  It feels right that we head downwards, pulling the trap door closed behind us.  I can't see a thing, I place my hands on the opposing stone walls and gingerly step forwards.  This time I am leading.  She is afraid, please don't leave me in here.  I'm quite surprised, didn't think this girl was afraid of anything.  It's cold down here, one foot in front of the other, she has her hands on my waist, her touch is electrifying, how long before we reach the exit?  I'm starting to have second thoughts about those magical energies.  A light, at the end of the tunnel, sweet daylight, we've made it.  Mara hugs me tightly with relief.

We find Wind and he takes us to meet the peyote.  Now, peyote grow wild in the desert, but around these parts it gets a bit too chilly in winter, so they cultivate them in a greenhouse, small green buttons in neat little rows.  Wind explains that it takes years from them to reach maturity.  He invites me to stroke one with my hand.  It is soft to the touch, not at all prickly.  These cacti are technically illegal, although they've been used by local peoples for millenia.  The community skirt the law through religious tolerance, for the cacti are never sold and only used as part of a ceremony.  I'm beginning to realize the significance of what I am being offered and I'm starting to wonder if I am worthy of such a gift.

We climb a ridge to meditate as the afternoon sun sinks towards the horizon.  Mara and Wind are sitting with their legs crossed, their backs straight, their eyes closed, breathing deeply.  That position looks pretty uncomfortable to me, so I just lean back and appreciate the scenery.  Looking inward, what does that even mean?  Could you imagine living out here, in total isolation, far from the city lights, disconnected from time?  Three days and I'd be ready to claw my eyes out from boredom.  I'm getting bored right now actually.

I think Wind senses my impatience, he arises and bades me to walk with him, leaving Mara in her meditation.  He explains that once I take the peyote I will go on an expedition into the wild to uncover my spirit animal and become one with the sacred ground beneath us.  Peyote is a teacher, of love, holiness and a respect for nature.  Frankly, I find everything about him annoying, his mystical way of talking, his ridiculous clothes, his silly name and that damned goatee, my fingers are just itching for the clippers.  He decides to reframe the words in terms that I might understand.  If I were to go back to the past, through my parents and their parents, and so on and so forth, back centuries and millenia, back to the early humans who boldly walked forth from Africa, and back further, to a time when we still lived in trees, to the great apes, to our ancient ancestors.  And then go back even further, to the first mammals, to the life that crawled out of the sea, to the very first living organisms.  And so you see that every living thing around us, every bush, every tree, every scrub of grass, every tiny ant, all are related to us, all are distant cousins, we are but one giant family on this planet.  Sometimes we forget this.  Peyote opens our eyes.  But it goes back further, for every speck of dust, every drop of water, every breath of air, all of it, comes from the very beginning, from the formation of our planet and our sun, which was all once forged in the hearts are many ancient stars now long spent.  And the ground upon which we walk is but a thin crust resting upon explosive forces, which we can bear witness to when a volcano erupts, forming new islands, and there are currents and energies beneath our feet of incredible power.  Their community was founded on a spot where the lines of energies converge, there is no scientific explanation for this, but one does not need a scientific explanation to take advantage of a phenomenon.  Why, scientists have no explanation for gravity, but if you jump into the air do you not know that you will surely fall back down?  A compass needle points north, aiding sailors for generations to sail across the high seas, but what is magnetism anyway?  Peyote will show the interconnection of all things.  It will show you the truth which you have always known but have since forgotten.

I take a deep breath.  Alright, but why me?  He asks me if I think it is merely an accident that I came here today, that it was simply a matter of chance?  I do.  He tells me that I am searching for a guide, that I found Mara and that I latched on to her because I knew she would bring me to this place.  Not true, I just thought she had a sexy ass.  He carries on, saying that many people go their entire lives without ever opening their eyes, but I have chosen to travel, to see the world, to follow my curiosity, to open my mind, and it has brought me here.

He stares as the dim arc of the setting sun.  He places a hand on my shoulder and tells me that though I may not love others, though I may not love myself, I should know that here I am loved, that I am in company of good people, and as I go on my journey into the wild their love will be with me.  However, I alone can make the choice.

I feel afraid.  There are dark places in my mind, bad memories, doors best left locked and chained.  I have anger inside me.  Thoughts of my father.  A misspent youth.  Things I'm not proud of.  Do I hate myself?  Will the peyote show me reality in a different light?

I follow Wind back up the path, his blue robes and white dragons and red hair flowing in the breeze.  Mara is looking peaceful, she smiles at us.  It is time.  We head down the ridge as I see the first stars appearing in the sky.  We enter a domed tent and sit down.  Wind kindles a fire and then begins to brew tea.  He pours a cup and hands it to Mara.  She brings it to her chest, then to her forehead, then drinks deeply.  He pours a second cup and hands it to me.  I stare into the depths of the receptacle.  The moment of truth.  I bring it to my lips and drink.  The taste is awful, terribly bitter.  I drink to the last drop, and with a grimace hand the cup back.  I look at Mara, she's just staring at the flames.  I too watch the fire for a while.

Very slowly I begin to feel warmth flow through my body.  I'm irritable, uncomfortable, my ears are buzzing.  I go outside and vomit, spewing out everything I have ever eaten, until I'm just retching air.  I feel horrible.  I enter the tent again.  Wind tells me that my body is purifying itself.  He hands me some more tea.  I drink deeply, without hesitation.  Now go, he says, find your spirit animal.  I realize that Mara has already left.  I begin to walk the path up toward the ridge.  The night sky is quite beautiful, so far from any light pollution, I don't think I've ever seen so many stars before.  I stare up at the Milky Way, the universe, all those stars, dancing before my eyes.  My jaw is slack, my throat is parched, I'm completely mesmerized by the vision.  I guess the drug is taking hold of me.

I am floating through a dream, drifting through delirium, a most pleasant sensation.  As I look around me, I am struck by the life, it is everywhere, the colours are radiant.  I hadn't given much attention to how alive the desert really is.  I'm staring at a bush, the way it glows.  Before, I'd have just walked past without a second glance, but now, I am enraptured.  Even the rocks themselves are exploding in golden light.  I can see how clearly I am in symbiosis with the plants, we breathe the same air, my body comes from the Earth, I am one with all, and all is One.  I am struck by the most profound euphoria.  I laugh, and I laugh, and I laugh, and I cry, giddy tears of childish joy.  Oh how beautiful it all is!

I make it up to the ridge and sit down.  The inifinity of it, time is irrelevant, I would like to stay here for eternity.  Ah yes, I do understand.  It all makes perfect sense.  From the moment I was born, people have been putting words into my head.  See, tea, pea, free, lap, nap, sap, nut, rut... the signifier, the abstract concept, the map overlaid on reality, all these terms, far from what really is.  I was sinking down beneath all that, reverting to a purer mindset.

Suddenly I rushed to that dark door, the one I keep bolted shut and battened down, I wanted to rip it open and throw myself down to the very depths.  Oh the horror, all the things I had taken for granted.  People I have hurt.  My poor mother, I have made her suffer.  The guilt, the guilt.  My father is reprimanding me.  I'm so sorry father.  Forgive me.  I am imperfect.  Acceptation.  Yes, I am imperfect.  But I can do better.  I will do better.  I will make amends.  There is so much beauty around me.  So much goodness, and I am part of that goodness.

I lean back and gaze at the dancing stars for minutes, hours, days, years, centuries.  They are smiling at me, protecting me.  I want to hold onto this feeling.  Ah, but I can not.  I must return to the mortal plane.  What utter lunacy indeed that this drug should be illegal.  Perhaps fear might hold a man back, but to throw another in a cage for partaking?  Alcohol, carnivals, the church service, these pale in comparison to the altered consciousness peyote provides.

Breathe in, breathe out.  The images are fading, the stars have stopped dancing.  I feel quite normal, back in my mind.  The journey is over.  Did I find my spirit animal?  I'm not sure.  The first light of dawn is creeping across the sky.  I pick my way back down the ridge.

I'm wandering the corridors of the complex, when I come upon a doorway, the door is standing ajar.  Inside I see Mara and Wind sharing an intimate embrace.  They're holding hands, staring into each others eyes, then they kiss, as they've likely been doing for a good while now.  She reaches up and pulls his robes off his shoulders, revealing a sleek but muscular chest.  She begins to kiss his neck, his shoulders, his chest, moving lower.  I don't need to see what comes next.  I'm invading their privacy.  Quietly, I turn and walk away.

As I trod glumly down the dim corridor, I feel a welling frustration.  I wanted to be with her, I wanted to hold her and kiss her and sleep with her.  But she doesn't want me.  I feel that I should leave this place.  I leave a note with my number on the cushion I had sat upon earlier.  I add a "PS: Thanks to Wind for a beautiful experience".  I find the remote control, hit the button, and walk outside to wait for my ride.

I feel a little bad just abandoning Mara, as if somehow I am responsable for her.  But I guess she's where she wants to be.  After all, she brought me here.  I let out a sigh.  Perhaps this is what I'll be doing henceforth, picking up random people and taking them where they want to go.

I arrive at the airport, the jet is waiting.  The pilot looks at me and asks me where to.  I lean back, close my eyes for a second.  Where to?  I haven't thought that far ahead.  I imagine Mara, watching her paint, watching her laugh, watching her smile, and I feel a pang of regret.  I think about the stories she told me, and suddenly it comes to me.  I tell the pilot to head for Bali.  I recline the seat, pull a blanket over myself and drift off as we get airborn.
