---
title: March on
date: 2019-09-27
---

It's Friday morning, 6am.

I can't sleep.  I went to bed feeling angry and sad, and woke up a few hours later still feeling angry and sad.  I have to work today, eight hours, starting at 9, or maybe 9:30, perhaps even at 10, although that's really pushing it.  I know that I will feel tired the whole day, that it will be a struggle to concentrate.

I feel angry and sad because Maria Rosa and Ann went to have sex together with a man in exchange for money.  He paid them 120€ each, of which they get to keep 70€ and the remainder went to the agency.  That's the deal they have.  The agency provides an apartment with rooms, I assume they have some kind of license, although I'm not exactly sure.  For what it's worth, prostitution is legal in Spain.  The agency also handles the photoshoots, the advertisements, they field the calls and make appointments.

I live with these two women, for the time being at least, we share an apartment.  Ann has been sleeping in the study for the past few months, and Maria Rosa sleeps with me in the master bed.  She says she loves me, sometimes we have sex.  I've had sex with Ann as well a few times, although she's really far more interested in meeting women.  She defines herself as lesbian, having sex with men is something she mostly does for money.  I'd say she enjoys herself most of the time, she has her little vibrator that she swears by, she uses it to get herself off, it's important for her to have an orgasm, she can't often rely on the men.

Maria Rosa is planning on moving out, to live by herself in an apartment in Igualada, a smallish town an hour's drive outside Barcelona.  She grew up there, and she wants to be close to her family for a while.  She's probably going to give up working for the agency, I'm not really clear how she intends to earn money, I can't say at this point I really care.  She's made quite a lot of money over the summer with the agency, although it seems she's also wasted a lot of it, now that she has to put down a deposit on the apartment she's feeling a bit tight for cash, and she's asking me for a loan.  When she moves out my rent will double.  "Expensive" is a relative term, it all depends on how much you earn, how much you have saved, well in my case paying 800€ for a room in Barcelona is pretty expensive.  Most people pay 400€, a little more, a little less.  Serves me right for renting a rooftop apartment with a terrace in the historic town centre.  Maria Rosa never wanted to rent this apartment, she always said it was too expensive.  All I wanted was to have a space for us, to live together, and to invite others to come play.  You can't really do that if you're sharing with strangers.  There is a price to pay for privacy in a big city, most people can't afford it.  I'm not sure if I can either to be honest.

Ann could leave at any time.  Her visa has expired, she should have left months ago, back to Argentina, or onwards to another destination outside of Europe.  She's not an illegal immigrant, just in an "irregular situation", so she says.  The rules are absurd, she has many Spanish ancestors, but too far back to qualify for nationality.  They fought for their independence and they won it, now that the colony has gone to shit they all want to come home.  I'm not Spanish at all, but thanks to an Irish passport I get to live here indefinitely with few restrictions.  A while back I got married to Florencia, another Argentinian woman, she says I freed a slave.  It's a paper marriage, we're friends but nothing more, she prefers burly men, tall and strong, I don't make the grade.  She offered to pay me for the marriage, after all I was helping her out, but it seemed unethical to profit from her desperation.  At the very least I could help one person slip through the cracks of this demented system.  I told Ann to get hitched if she wants to stay, she's still looking for a suitable candidate.

I can't say I'd mind if Ann left.  I only ever expected her to stay for a few days while she was looking for a room, but she settled in fast, and I let things slide.  After two months I started asking her to pay rent.  When you ask someone to pay rent it means they're no longer just crashing, they're actually living with you.  Funny how the simple act of handing over a few paper bills changes the perception.  She buys groceries from time to time, although I think she eats more than she buys.  I try to keep track of the bills, but it's not easy.  Sometimes we find ourselves in these situations, being taken advantage of, just a little, by someone who could probably take care of themself.  She's very pretty and she walks around the apartment in the nude.  Her interests are: sex, drugs and electronic music.  She's easy going, funny, carefree.  I'd like to have sex with her more but I try to leave her alone.  

I can't say I really want to kick Ann out, especially now that Maria Rosa is leaving, after all, what would I do with all this space by myself?  This apartment in which I have invested so much energy, I painted it, I furnished it, pretty much every single thing here I dragged up 5 flights of stairs.  And for what?  To make some kind of home, nothing more than a temporary refuge really.  When we first moved in, Maria Rosa wanted to put a crib in the small room, thinking about a future baby, a nice dream.  Still no baby I'm afraid, and now she's leaving.  

This is girlfriend number four in a string of long-term relationships that go nowhere.  I'm not sure how much longer I have to put up with her for.  Perhaps she'll be out of here in a couple of days.  It's going to be a challenge to get her books and papers out, she has a lot of them, she never does anything unless I insist.  Maybe I'll just dump them in the street.  She came home with Ann last night after their threesome, I was drifting off to sleep, but then I awoke to their chatter.  They were talking about the experience, I listened.

You can have sex with them if you want.  All you have to do is pay.  Most women would be too proud for that sort of thing.  I've never paid for sex, I guess I'm a little too proud as well.  I always felt that I'd have to be very desperate to stoop to that level.  Desperate or just plain selfish.  If I was more selfish then I could pay and not care if the other person actually desires me.  I struggle with the idea of reducing sex to a financial transaction.

The client paid the price, he had sex with each of them, several times in fact, switching from one to the other.  He changed condoms each time without prompting, an act which they found respectful.  They have no contact with the clients outside of the agency, when the clock runs out they leave and forget.  There is a dividing line in their minds, they don't mix their private and professional lives.

I'd like to have a similar experience with them, I'm sure Maria Rosa would be quite happy, although Ann is probably not so keen.  I can't offer to pay her either because I'm already on the other side of the dividing line, we live together after all.  So all I get is the opportunity to overhear their conversations about their clients each day.

There are some women who pay men for sex, but lets be honest here, the overwhelming majority of clients are men.  Men paying, and women charging.  Why is that?  There's power there, and it's the women that have it.  I'm in favour of sexual equality, equal rights and equal pay and equal responsibility and all that.  I don't think it's fair to repress half the species because of their sexuality.  And if we do achieve an equal society, is it fair that one half should have to pay the other for sex?

I'm feeling pretty angry and sad.  Sure I want to get laid, just as much as the next guy.  I'd like to be with a woman who desires me.  My thoughts veer off into darker territory, start to think that maybe I too should just pay for sex.  Give up on the hope.  Stop being generous and just be selfish.  To hell with them all.  I'm done trying.

I bought a cheap one-way flight to Buenos Aires at the end of November.  I didn't really think about it too much.  I might use it, I might not.  I could put all my things in storage, worry about them sometime in the future.  Just float around South America for a while.  Skip winter in Europe.  Everything is cheaper there.  They say the latino women are more promiscuous.  I think that would suit me.  Who knows, one of them may even fall in love with me.  Perhaps I shouldn't have got married to Florencia, I might need that marriage contract for someone else.  I don't really care about the institution of marriage or anything, but if you do fall in love with a foreigner it is a useful means to stay together.

I was a bit surprised when Maria Rosa announced she was moving to Igualada.  I didn't know that she'd been looking at apartments online.  Her brother found out about her new profession, he didn't take it so well.  Maybe he's afraid for her safety, maybe he's just a macho prick.  He asked how I could "permit" her to be a prostitute.  As if it were my choice.  What she does with her body is her own affair.  Anyway, what could I do, break up with her?  Now she's the one moving out.

There aren't many professions that allow you to work from home, in your underpants, and make 50€/hour.  I have one, I'm a software engineer.  That said, most clients want you in their office, if you snag one that lets you work from home then it's golden.  I hit gold, this is the second time in fact.  If I was a successful writer I might have it easier, but in truth I already have it way easier than most people.  I can't complain.  I have to finish off the tests on the new invoicing system today, it has to work, there is no margin for error.  There's stress there too, and especially if you haven't slept well, if you're feeling angry and sad, if you're living with someone who's leaving you and who acts like nothing's happening and asks you if everything is ok.  Oh yeah, sure, everything is just fucking fine.  Put on a fake smile and shoulder it.  It could be much harder.  People are dying of cancer out there.  Don't dare complain.

How many people do you see in good shape?  There's a downward slide as age sets in.  We live in cities where practically no physical effort at all is required to survive.  One good reason to live on the fifth floor with no elevator.  Go to the gym and swim in the pool several times a week.  Eat your greens.  Try keep that body in shape.  I suppose it should be fun, but it mostly just feels like work.  Healthy body, healthy mind.  Gotta look after the primary system, there's no backup here, not yet anyway, when is the mind-uploading going to arrive?  Free me from the moral coil, this sack of meat that pesters me continually with its excretions and instinctive desires.  There's some flakes in my hair, should I try a new shampoo?  I look around and I see a lot of overweight folks, it makes me angry and sad.  At least I'm alright.  Could be better.  I'm seeing wrinkles on my face, spots on my skin, the sun is the enemy, I should probably wear a hat more.  Quit smoking, stop drinking.  Go to bed early and sleep well.  Do yoga in the morning.  Meditate.  Hang on grimly by my fingernails to the illusion that I too can be one of those who reach enlightenment, who enjoy a full healthy happy life, who establish and maintain relationships of love, trust, intimacy.  The city is full of bars, and each bar is full of people drowning themselves a drink at a time, turning off their minds and becoming animals, at least until morning.  The city is full of cannabis clubs, and each club is full of people smoking themselves into a stupor, anesthetizing themselves into oblivion.

It's 9am now, almost time to start working.  I'm exhausted, angry and sad.  I feel no better for having written these words, and I can think of no one that I would like to share them with.  March on my little soldier, march on.



