---
title: Rendez-vous à Cancún
date: 2021-06-06
---

As I write these lines I am flying across the Atlantic, from Madrid to Cancun.  I've never been to Cancun before, or Quitana Roo, or Mexico, or North America.  I wasn't actually planning on going there, it just sort of happened by accident.  See, there's a girl waiting for me in Wisconsin, USA.  However, I could't fly straight there because of this pandemic, so I had to fly to some third country and wait there for two weeks.  That seems pretty absurd, like so many of the restrictions imposed since the outbreak.

It's a puzzling challenge.  I found surprisingly cheap tickets from Barcelona to Reykjavic, and from there to New York, but Iceland only permits visitors who have been vaccinated.  Another good option was Casablanca, with direct onward flights to Chicago, I could just eat couscous for a fortnight.  I had a glance at Havana, but as far as I know the USA still hasn't lifted the trade embargo.  Then I chose Cancun, a great destination indeed, very affordable direct flights, and a very nice place to hang out for two weeks, visiting Mayan pyramids and the turquoise water-filled sink-holes they call cenotes, that look like blue pearls in the lush green rain forest.

I told my girl about my plans, and she said she couldn't wait, so she bought a ticket to come down and meet me.  I'm glad I'll arrive first, I'll be there waiting for her.  I guess we'll get to Wisconsin eventually, but first we'll be hanging out in Holbox and Tulum and other exotic destinations with palm-fringed white beaches.  It seems very romantic.  She's an old friend, we've always fancied each other, but our stars have never aligned.  We tend to get into these long-term relationships that end badly.  Hers tend to last longer than mind, which is to say, she takes longer to break up with her partners, even when the writing is on the wall.  Here we are, simultaneously single for the first time in 15 years.  She called me up, and asked me what I was doing?  I said I was on my way.

We kissed once, when we first met, we were high on pot, wandering together through the dimly-lit streets of Avignon, when I was suddenly overcome by the strongest urge to push her against one of those giant ancient wooden doors and kiss her upon the lips.  She was taken by surprise, she let me kiss her, it was a good kiss, and then she placed her palm on my chest and slowly pushed me away.  She looked at me with a mix of desire and frustration.  Let's not cheat on our partners.  

I'm going to be standing there in arrivals, Cancun International Airport, waiting for her to appear.  The shock of recognition, I see her, then she sees me, we smile at each other and she walks towards me.  I'm just staring at those blue eyes, at this women who I have loved and desired for so very long.  We'll embrace, I'll hold her tight in my arms, I might even pick her up and spin her around.  Will I kiss her for the second time?

The plan is to become lovers, a couple, husband and wife, parents, business partners, home owners, adventure companions, from now on forward, to death do us part.  Sounds pretty good to me.  I'm not going to lie, the pandemic has been tough, I've been pretty lonely.  It got to the point that I was considering going out into the sea for a long swim, just keep going until I'm exhausted, lose sight of land, and the waves will surely take me.  I'd lost all hope, the solitude was eating me up inside.

I'd lost my queen, I'd run away to South America to cry it all out, I got trapped in Brazil during the start of the pandemic, I spent a month completely alone camping by the side of a river in the jungle, and another two in a tiny village where I hardly spoke the language and the locals stared at me coldly.  France finally started opening and I got on the first flight, then I had to wait several weeks more before I could get back to Barcelona, my home.  At least, it once was.  The city was in ruins, figuratively speaking, the buildings were still standing, but they were all empty.  I walked alone down the Ramblas, usually thronged with tourists.  A police car rolled past slowly, nothing else moved.  I tried to connect with my friends, but they were all suffering from the trauma of being locked up in their little apartments for months.  Break-ups are a bitch, especially when you find out your ex has been smearing your reputation while you were away.  Doors were not opened.  Calls were not answered.  

I was lost, adrift.  I flew to the Canaries in search of a piece of happiness, I spent my days watching the waves, trying to fathom the motivation to go surfing.  I was so depressed I couldn't even do that.  Sometimes I lose hope, I've lost too much to try and start again, giving up seems like the sensible choice.  No children, no lover, no friends, no job, no income, no home, just a room sublet for a few weeks.  I started smoking a lot of weed, and mostly just kept staring at the sea.  Thinking about that long swim.  When I get depressed everything goes grey, I can't imagine a better future.

Therapy saved me, a stroke of luck really, a young women who I'd met randomly back in Bahia, wise beyond her years, we started doing weekly sessions.  Took me months to start feeling better, plus I got a new job, even started to have some sex, my confidence was starting to improve.  I hope to never pass through such a dark period ever again.  And look at me now, full of hope, flying to Cancun to fall in love, start a relationship, make plans for the future.  Tears are streaming down my face.

All of this feels a little out of the blue, a complete surprise, in the days leading up to the journey I've had the strangest sensation of being in a dream.  We've been calling each other and staring into each others eyes.  I keep asking her to pinch me.  It would be a great understatement to say I am excited.  I am ecstatic.  I am completely over the moon.  This is quite possibly the best thing that has ever happened to me.

She's shy about the first time, and I understand, I feel the same way.  How do you become lovers after being friends for 15 years?  I've followed her through all her relationships, I've tried to be friendly with her partners, although it's never been easy, she has a history of being attracted to violent men.  She's always got on well with my partners.  I remember meeting her on Sundays at the farmer's market in Montpellier, we'd have some coffee and croissants and talk about our relationships and work and hopes and dreams and also complain about the French.  I always liked her style, sporty but elegant.  She has a lovely figure.  I would keep wishing she was mine.  And now she will be.  We're going to be like awkward teenagers on their first date.  I think it's pretty sweet.

I've rented a cottage facing the sea, nothing but beach and jungle, we'll break open the champagne, put on some music, dance around in our tighty-whities and at some point we'll get past that shyness... and sparks will fly.  I can't help feeling a little stung that she pushed me shoftly away all those years ago, we got some catching up to do.  I don't think we'll be going outside much.

